---
title: "Office Hours: 2023 Aug 23"
layout: presentation_solar
parent: PUI
---

## Outline:

- Lit Review: Relevant papers I've read recently. Summaries of models and empirics.
- Dicussion: What should I prioritize to get this paper done?
    - Model
    - Empirics


---

layout: true
class: header

<h2 style="background-color: #9cd6e4;">Lit Review</h2>

---

### Hansen, Imrohoroglu, 1992

*The role of unemployment insurance in an economy with liquidity constraints and moral hazard*

- Model: 
    - Agents have static income and transition being having employment opportunities and not.
    - They choose whether to accept an opportunity and how much to save.
    - Gov UI policy includes income replacement rates θ, and enforcement rates π
- Empirics: Just calibration.

Sahin et al 2002 uses a similar model, but allows π to depend on the past 4 periods of history.


---

### Hopenhayn, Nicolini, 1997

*Optimal unemployment insurance*


- Model: 
    - Worker searches for a job. Jobs are identical and permanent.
    - Probability of finding a job dependent on search effort.
    - Search effort is hidden, but the worker's savings are perfectly observed.
    - With observable savings, optimal program decreases benefits over time. Increases tax on labor income when there is a long history of unemployment.
- Empirics: Just calibration.

---


### Ganong, Greig, Noel, Sullivan, Vavra, 2022

*Spending and Job-Finding Impacts of Expanded Unemployment Benefits: Evidence from Administrative Micro Data*

- Empirics:
    - Uses income and spending data from bank accounts with JPMorgan Chase.
    - Effects on rates of return to work estimated two ways:
        - Interrupted Time Series
        - Diff-in-diff exploiting the fact that a constant bonus results in different replacement rates across workers.
    - Looking at exit from UI benefits **to a new job**, the pandemic bonus discouraged job finding. Effect small but significant.
    - Looking at **recalls**, the effects are harder to interpret. "If anything recalls *rise* after the [300 dollar] supplement takes effect. "
- Model: 
    - consumption-savings problem with costly job search
    - fixed wage rate for each household, but heterogeneity between households
    - model calibrated to prior evidence overestimates impact on job finding, underestimates impact on spending.
    - Best fit model predicts UI supplements account for only 5% of pandemic employment gap.


(Paper focuses on extrinsic margin. No discussion of intrinsic margin.)

<!--

@article{ganong2020us,
  title={US unemployment insurance replacement rates during the pandemic},
  author={Ganong, Peter and Noel, Pascal and Vavra, Joseph},
  journal={Journal of public economics},
  volume={191},
  pages={104273},
  year={2020},
  publisher={Elsevier}
}


@article{gerfin2005does,
  title={Does subsidised temporary employment get the unemployed back to work? An econometric analysis of two different schemes},
  author={Gerfin, Michael and Lechner, Michael and Steiger, Heidi},
  journal={Labour economics},
  volume={12},
  number={6},
  pages={807--835},
  year={2005},
  publisher={Elsevier}
}

@article{mccall1996unemployment,
  title={Unemployment insurance rules, joblessness, and part-time work},
  author={McCall, Brian P},
  journal={Econometrica: Journal of the Econometric Society},
  pages={647--682},
  year={1996},
  publisher={JSTOR}
}
-->



















---

layout: true
class: header

<h2 style="background-color: #e4ce9c;">My Paper: What to focus on next?</h2>


---

### Model

My model is similar to (Hansen, Imrohoroglu, 1992) and (Sahin et al 2002), with the following additions:
- Three employment levels instead of two. (fully employed, partially employed, fully unemployed) 
- Some limited heterogeneity (income quintiles)

With the code I have, I can:
- Adjust replacement rates, tax rates, UI enforcement rates, and add a constant bonus UI payment.
- Calculate steady states with or without a balanced budget.
- Start at a a steady state, adjust policy or employment distribution, simulate transition to new steady state.



---

### Empirics

From the Department of Labor, statistics about:
- The number of UI benefit weeks (recipients) on a monthly basis for each state
- The number of benefit weeks paid out to those receiving full UI benefits (and those receiving partial)

And I've computed the relative size of the pandemic PUI bump, among other stats.

I also have data about the UI schedule from various states.


